README.md, before:

# Tasmanian.jl 

Wrapping the awesome [tasmanian](https://github.com/ORNL/Tasmanian) library.

Most of the functions for Sparsegrids are implemented, except the ones
for manually constructed grids. In particular, Tasmanian.jl supports
- global grids
- sequence grids
- local polynomial grids
- wavelet grids
- Fourier grids
- refinements
- differentiation
- integration
- acceleration via BLAS/LAPACK (via libblastrampoline) and OMP

## Documentation

https://dynarejulia.github.io/Tasmanian.jl

## Examples

### Example 1: The *Darth Vader* Function

Approximating the function at increasing levels of grid refinement at 1000 randomly chosen points.


```julia
julia> using Tasmanian
julia> Tasmanian.ex2()
INFO: error on initial grid:    0.06798, with 13 points
INFO: refinement level 1 error: 0.02096, with 16 points
INFO: refinement level 2 error: 0.00896, with 36 points
INFO: refinement level 3 error: 0.00314, with 80 points
INFO: refinement level 4 error: 0.00097, with 176 points
INFO: refinement level 5 error: 0.00031, with 384 points
INFO: refinement level 6 error: 9.0e-5, with 824 points
INFO: refinement level 7 error: 2.0e-5, with 1688 points
INFO: Saved animation to /Users/74097/.julia/v0.6/Tasmanian/examples/ex2.gif
Plots.AnimatedGif("/Users/74097/.julia/v0.6/Tasmanian/examples/ex2.gif")
```

![](examples/ex2.gif)

### Example 2: Genz test function

This approximates `f(x,y) = 1.0 / (abs(0.5 - x^4 - y^4) + 0.1)`.


![](examples/ex3.gif)

## Requirements
- Julia 64bit >= v1.9
- Recommended version: Julia 64 bit v1.10

## Installation

To install julia package

```julia
Pkg.add("Tasmanian")
```

## Build

`libtasmanian.jl`, Julia bindings for the C interface of the
[Tasmanian](https://github.com/ORNL/TASMANIAN) is auto-generated by
CLANG.jl

The bindings can be regenerated with
```
cd Tasmanian.jl/gen
julia --project wraper.jl
```

## Tasmanian_jll

The artifact `Tasmanian_jll` provides the
[Tasmanian](https://github.com/ORNL/TASMANIAN) library for all Julia
plateforms.

The recipe to build the artifact is available in `Yggdrasil.jl/T/Tasmanian`

## Todo

- implement missing Sparsegrids functions
- implement optimization
- implement Dream
- add plot recipes

Commit message:

Update README.md for GPU
Added notes on required CMake of Tasmanian from source.

README.md, after:

# Tasmanian.jl 

Wrapping the awesome [tasmanian](https://github.com/ORNL/Tasmanian) library.

Most of the functions for Sparsegrids are implemented, except the ones
for manually constructed grids. In particular, Tasmanian.jl supports
- global grids
- sequence grids
- local polynomial grids
- wavelet grids
- Fourier grids
- refinements
- differentiation
- integration
- acceleration via BLAS/LAPACK (via libblastrampoline), OMP, and GPU CUDA

## Documentation

https://dynarejulia.github.io/Tasmanian.jl

## Creating a GPU-Compatible Tasmanian Installation

Tasmanian grids allow for GPU acceleration, but it is not natively implemented
in the pre-compiled Julia binaries. Instead, you have to manually install the 
[original Tasmanian C++ package](https://github.com/ORNL/TASMANIAN/) from source.
The repo provides [instructions](https://github.com/ORNL/TASMANIAN/blob/master/Doxygen/Installation.md)
to CMake from source. I also include my options in CMake as a reference.

## Examples

### Example 1: The *Darth Vader* Function

Approximating the function at increasing levels of grid refinement at 1000 randomly chosen points.


```julia
julia> using Tasmanian
julia> Tasmanian.ex2()
INFO: error on initial grid:    0.06798, with 13 points
INFO: refinement level 1 error: 0.02096, with 16 points
INFO: refinement level 2 error: 0.00896, with 36 points
INFO: refinement level 3 error: 0.00314, with 80 points
INFO: refinement level 4 error: 0.00097, with 176 points
INFO: refinement level 5 error: 0.00031, with 384 points
INFO: refinement level 6 error: 9.0e-5, with 824 points
INFO: refinement level 7 error: 2.0e-5, with 1688 points
INFO: Saved animation to /Users/74097/.julia/v0.6/Tasmanian/examples/ex2.gif
Plots.AnimatedGif("/Users/74097/.julia/v0.6/Tasmanian/examples/ex2.gif")
```

![](examples/ex2.gif)

### Example 2: Genz test function

This approximates `f(x,y) = 1.0 / (abs(0.5 - x^4 - y^4) + 0.1)`.


![](examples/ex3.gif)

## Requirements
- Julia 64bit >= v1.9
- Recommended version: Julia 64 bit v1.10

## Installation

To install julia package

```julia
Pkg.add("Tasmanian")
```

## Build

`libtasmanian.jl`, Julia bindings for the C interface of the
[Tasmanian](https://github.com/ORNL/TASMANIAN) is auto-generated by
CLANG.jl

The bindings can be regenerated with
```
cd Tasmanian.jl/gen
julia --project wraper.jl
```

## Tasmanian_jll

The artifact `Tasmanian_jll` provides the
[Tasmanian](https://github.com/ORNL/TASMANIAN) library for all Julia
plateforms.

The recipe to build the artifact is available in `Yggdrasil.jl/T/Tasmanian`

## Todo

- implement missing Sparsegrids functions
- implement optimization
- implement Dream
- add plot recipes
